#summary One-sentence summary of this page.

= Config DirectFB =

Tạo file .directfbrc theo đường dẫn $HOME/.directfbrc voi các thông số sau:

{{{
fbdev=<device>
Opens the given frame buffer device instead of /dev/fb0

mode=<width>x<height>
Sets the default screen resolution. If unspecified DirectFB will use the first mode from /etc/fb.modes Some frame buffer devices (namely vesafb) don't support mode switches and can only be used in the resolution that is set on boot time.

depth=<pixeldepth>
Sets the default pixel depth in bits per pixel. If unspecified DirectFB will use the depth specified in the first mode from /etc/fb.modes DirectFB supports color depths of 8, 15, 16, 24 and 32. Which values are available depends on the frame buffer device you are using. Some frame buffer devices (namely vesafb) don't support mode switches at all and can only be used in the pixel depth that is set at boot time.

pixelformat=<pixelformat>
Sets the default pixel format. This is similar to the depth parameter described above but allows more fine-grained control. Possible values for pixelformat are LUT8, RGB332, RGB16, RGB24 and RGB32. Some drivers may also support the more exotic pixel formats A8, ALUT44, ARGB, ARGB1555, I420, UYVY, YUY2 and YV12.
}}}

== Ví Dụ ==

{{{
fbdev=/dev/fb0
mode=320x240
depth=32
pixelformat=RGB32
}}}

==Build Ứng Dụng DirectFB sử dụng LTIB==

Chuyển vào shell cross của LTIB

{{{
$ /.ltib -m shell
}}}

{{{
$ gcc -ldirectfb -o test test.c -I/root/ltib/rootfs/usr/include/directfb
}}}

== Sử dụng USB camera hiển thị trên màn hình TFT LCD ==

{{{
mplayer -fps 30 tv:// -tv  driver=v4l2:width=320:height=240:device=/dev/video1 -vo fbdev2
}}}